{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red249\green249\blue249;\red251\green0\blue7;
\red53\green118\blue190;\red40\green98\blue162;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green91\blue202;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red249\green249\blue249;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17160\viewh15840\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 Application #3 Solution\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Honor Code\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 To aid you in assessing your peers' submissions for the Application, we have developed an extensive solution/grading guide provided below that you should review 
\b after 
\b0 completing your first submission to the Application and before you assess your peers' submissions. 
\b Please do not consult this reading before making your first attempt at the Application.
\b0  Using this reading to prepare your first submission violates the class Honor Code and robs you of the learning experience provided by this assignment. If you need to make a second submission for the Application, we ask that you limit your consultation of this solution guide and under no circumstances should you submit copies of the plots provided below. 
\b Create your own original plots.
\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 1 (2 pts)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  Does the plot follow the formatting guidelines for plots? Does the plot include a legend?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The formatting guidelines include the following items:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot is an image and not a text file.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot is appropriately trimmed. Showing the boundary of the plot's window is fine. However, the plot should not include part of the desktop.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The elements of the plot are of the correct type. Line plots are not the same as point plots.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Both axes should have tick marks labeled by regularly-spaced coordinate values.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Both axes have appropriate text labels that describe the quantities being plotted.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot has an appropriate title that describes the content of the plot.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot has an appropriate legend (when required) that distinguishes the various components of the plot.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \cb3 Assess the submitted plot based on these guidelines. For this question, do not deduct if the title of the plot does not distinguish between desktop Python and CodeSkulptor.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Item b (1 pt)
\b0  Do the two curves in the plot have the correct shapes?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The running times of the functions 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56992 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  should be 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0\fs24 2
\fs34 )
\f1\fs28 \up0  and 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 log
\fs24 2
\i\fs34 n
\i0 )
\f1\fs28 \up0 , respectively. Here are correct plots in both 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 .\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_closest_time.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_closest_time.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/simpleplot_closest_time.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/simpleplot_closest_time.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 For 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 , the timing curve should look almost linear with a very slight upward bend, indicating the function is growing at an 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 log
\fs24 2
\i\fs34 n
\i0 )
\f1\fs28 \up0  rate. If the timing curve appears to be growing quadratically (i.e. it is a constant fraction of the timing curve for  
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56992 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 ), count this item as incorrect. If you are unsure, score your peer's answer as correct.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 2 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 The submitted image will be assessed based on whether it matches our solution image. You do not need to include axes, axes labels, or a title for this image.\cb1 \
\cb3 Our code for computing this image takes approximately 10 minutes to run in IDLE so we will only provide the 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 solution image below. Observe that the solution image has a small green cluster in the far upper right (to the right of the olive cluster). Images created with other tools such as 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56978 
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 or GNUPlot are fine as long as they include the map of the USA in the background and the shape of the clusters match those in the the image below fairly accurately.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Compare the shape of the clusters in the submitted image to the shape of the clusters in the solution image. Since hierarchical clustering is deterministic, the shape of the clusters (where each cluster is visualized as a collection of counties) should match exactly. Do not compare the colors of the clusters. Reordering the clusters (which is allowed) causes the visualization code to assign different colors to each cluster. In some regions, the coloring of adjacent clusters may make it difficult to determine the boundary of the clusters in that region. In these regions, assume that the shape is correct.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_3108_15.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_3108_15.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Images that show the centers of the resulting clusters as well as the original counties are acceptable. Again, the position of each cluster center should exactly match the solution below. The absolute size of each cluster center need not match the solution image below since submitted images may have been rescaled. However, the size of each cluster center in relation to its neighbors should agree.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_3108_15_centers.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_3108_15_centers.png}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 3 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  The submitted image will be assessed based on whether it matches our solution image. You do not need to include axes, axes labels, or a title for this image.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Our code for computing this image takes only a few seconds to compute in CodeSkulptor so we will provide both 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56978 
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  solution images below. (Note that including the entire window in the 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 i 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 image is fine.)\cb1 \
\cb3 Compare the shape of the clusters in the submitted image to the shape of the clusters in the solution image. Since the computation of this clustering is deterministic, the shape of the clusters (where each cluster is visualized as a collection of counties) should agree exactly. For example, the correct image should have 
\f2\fs34 \up0 4
\f1\fs28 \up0  clusters that touch the east coast of the USA and 
\f2\fs34 \up0 4
\f1\fs28 \up0  clusters that touch the west coast of the USA. Even small differences in the shape of the clusters should result in the submitted image being counted as incorrect.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Important note:
\b0  Compare only the shape of the clusters, not their colors. Reordering the clusters (which is allowed) causes the visualization code to assign different colors to each cluster.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/simpleplot_kmeans_3108_15.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/simpleplot_kmeans_3108_15.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_3108_15.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_3108_15.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Images that show the centers of the resulting clusters as well as the original counties are acceptable. Again, the position of each cluster center should exactly match the solution. The absolute size of each cluster center need not match the solution image below since submitted images may have been rescaled. However, the size of each cluster center in relation to its neighbors should agree. Finally, the colors of the cluster centers do not need to match.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_3108_15_centers.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_3108_15_centers.png}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 4 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 Which clustering method is faster when the number of output clusters is either a small fixed number or a small fraction of the number of input clusters? Provide a short explanation in terms of the asymptotic running times of both methods. You should assume that 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56977 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56977 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56981 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56983 \u55349 \u56976 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  uses 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  and that k-means clustering always uses a small fixed number of iterations.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 As your computations in Questions 2 and 3 should have illustrated, k-means clustering is substantially faster than hierarchical clustering when the number of output clusters is fixed or a small fraction of the number of input clusters. The asymptotic analysis of both methods supports this observation.\cb1 \
\cb3 If there are 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 n
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0  input clusters and 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 k
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0  output clusters, hierarchical clustering makes 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 n
\i0 \uc0\u8722 
\i k
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0  calls to 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 . If 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 k
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0  is fixed or a small fraction of 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 n
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0 , each call to 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 log
\fs24 2
\i\fs34 n
\i0 )
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and, therefore, the running time for hierarchical clustering using 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0\fs24 2
\fs34 log
\fs24 2
\i\fs34 n
\i0 )
\f1\fs28 \up0 . For k-means, the running time is either 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 )
\f1\fs28 \up0  or 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0\fs24 2
\fs34 )
\f1\fs28 \up0  depending on whether the size of output cluster is fixed or varies as a function 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 n
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0 . Even in the this second case, 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 k
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0  being a small fraction of 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 n
\f1\i0\fs28 \up0  will reduce the running time in practice.\cb1 \
\cb3 Note that the submitted explanation does not need to go into this level of detail. However, it should state that k-means clustering is more efficient and include a short explanation that plausibly (possibly correct) matches the explanation above.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Conclusion for Questions 1-4\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 One important reason that hierarchical clustering is slower than k-means clustering is that each call to 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56972 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56987 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  throws away most of the information used in computing the closest pair. Smarter implementations of hierarchical clustering can substantially improve their performance by using an implementation of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closest_pair_of_points_problem#Dynamic_closest-pair_problem"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 dynamic closest pairs}}. Dynamic methods build an initial data structure that can be used to accelerate a sequence of insertions and deletions from the set of points.\cb1 \
\cb3 Using dynamic closest pairs leads to implementations of hierarchical clustering that are more competitive with k-means clustering. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ics.uci.edu/~eppstein/projects/pairs/Talks/ClusterGroup.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 This paper}} provides a nice introduction to approaches of this type.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 5 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  The submitted image will be assessed based on whether it matches our solution image. You do not need to include axes, axes labels, or a title for this image.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  solution image is provided below. Creating the image in 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56978 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is also fine. (Note that including the entire window in the 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56978 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  image is fine.)\cb1 \
\cb3 Compare the shape of the clusters in the submitted image to the shape of the clusters in the solution image. Since the computation of this clustering is deterministic, the shape of the clusters (where each cluster is visualized as a collection of counties) should agree exactly. Even small differences in the shape of the clusters should result in the submitted image being counted as incorrect.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Important note:
\b0  Compare only the shape of the clusters, not their colors. Reordering the clusters (which is allowed) causes the visualization code to assign different colors to each cluster.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_111_9.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_111_9.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Images that show the centers of the resulting clusters 
\b as well as the original counties are acceptable
\b0 . Again, the position of each cluster center should exactly match the solution. The absolute size of each cluster center need not match the solution image below since submitted images may have been rescaled. However, the size of each cluster center in relation to its neighbors should agree. Finally, the colors of the cluster centers do not need to match.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_111_9_centers.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_hierarchical_111_9_centers.png}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 6 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  The \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  solution image is provided below. Creating the image in 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56978 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is also fine. (Note that including the entire window in the 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56990 \u55349 \u56978 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  image is fine.)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Compare the shape of the clusters in the submitted image to the shape of the clusters in the solution image. Since the computation of this clustering is deterministic, the shape of the clusters (where each cluster is visualized as a collection of counties) should agree exactly. Even small differences in the shape of the clusters should result in the submitted image being counted as incorrect.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Important note:
\b0  Compare only the shape of the clusters, not their colors. Reordering the clusters (which is allowed) causes the visualization code to assign different colors to each cluster.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_111_9.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_111_9.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Images that show the centers of the resulting clusters 
\b as well as the original counties are acceptable
\b0 . Again, the position of each cluster center should exactly match the solution. The absolute size of each cluster center need not match the solution image below since submitted images may have been rescaled. However, the size of each cluster center in relation to its neighbors should agree. Finally, the colors of the cluster centers do not need to match.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_111_9_centers.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_kmeans_111_9_centers.png}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 7 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 Enter the values for the distortions for these two clusterings in the box below. Clearly indicate which values correspond to which clustering.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The distortion for the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 9
\f1\fs28 \up0  clusters generated by hierarchical clustering on the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 111
\f1\fs28 \up0  county data set is between 
\f2\fs34 \up0 1.751\'d710
\fs24 11
\f1\fs34 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\fs34 \up0 1.752\'d710
\fs24 11
\f1\fs28 \up0 . Count any answer in this range as being correct.\cb1 \
\cb3 The distortion for the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 9
\f1\fs28 \up0  clusters generated by k-means clustering on the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 111
\f1\fs28 \up0  county data set is between 
\f2\fs34 \up0 2.712\'d710
\fs24 11
\f1\fs34 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\fs34 \up0 2.713\'d710
\fs24 11
\f1\fs28 \up0 . Count any answer in this range as being correct.\cb1  \cb3 Note that the exponential part of the answer (
\f2\fs34 \up0 10
\fs24 11
\f1\fs28 \up0 ) may also be expressed in Python as the string 
\f2\fs34 \cf4 \up0 \strokec4 \uc0\u55349 \u56974 +\u55349 \u57335 \u55349 \u57335 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 8 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 Describe the difference between the shapes of the clusters produced by these two methods on the west coast of the USA. What caused one method to produce a clustering with a much higher distortion?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Each method generates 
\f2\fs34 \up0 3
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 clusters on the west coast of the USA. Hierarchical clustering generates one cluster in Washington state, one in northern California and one in southern California. K-means clustering generates one cluster that includes Washington state and parts of northern California, one cluster that includes the Los Angeles area, and one cluster that includes San Diego. The k-means clustering has substantially higher distortion due in part to the fact that southern California is split into two clusters while northern California is clustered with Washington state.\cb1 \
\cb3 This difference in cluster shape is due to the fact that the initial clustering used in k-means clustering includes the 3 counties in southern California with high population and no counties in northern California or Washington state. Due to a poor choice of the initial clustering based on large population counties, k-means clustering produces a clustering with relatively high distortion.\cb1 \
\cb3 When scoring the answer/explanation for this question, you are welcome to use your judgment about the correctness of the submitted explanation. If the explanation is plausible (possibly correct), score it as correct. If not, check whether the submitted explanation mentions that three of the nine initial clusters in k-means clustering are located in southern California. If so, also score these explanations as being correct. Otherwise, score the explanation as being incorrect.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 9 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 Based on your answer to Question 8, which method (hierarchical clustering or k-means clustering) requires less human supervision to produce clustering with relatively low distortion?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Hierarchical clustering requires less human supervision than k-means clustering to produce clustering of relatively low distortion as it requires no human interaction beyond the choice of the number of output clusters. On the other hand, k-means clustering requires a good strategy for choosing the initial cluster centers. As we saw in Question 8, strategies that appear reasonable at first glance may lead to clusterings with relatively high distortion.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Conclusion for Questions 5-9\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 In general, k-means clustering requires a higher level of human supervision since the quality of the output clustering is sensitive to the initial choice of cluster centers. k-means clustering also requires that the size of the output clustering be known beforehand. For hierarchical clustering, the distortion of the clustering can be monitored as closest pairs of clusters are merged with almost no extra cost.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 10 (4 pts)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 Do the plots follow the formatting guidelines for plots? Does the title of each plot indicate which data was used to create the plot? Do the plots include a legend?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Review the plotting guidelines from Question 1a. Be generous on the labeling of axes. However, for these plots, it is critical that the title identifies which plot goes with which data set and the legend identifies the clustering method corresponding to each curve. Therefore, score this item as incorrect if either is not present.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Item b (3 pts)
\b0  Do the two curves in each plot have the correct shapes?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Below are the three plots for the distortion curves for hierarchical clustering and k-means clustering. When assessing each submitted plot, the shape of both curves should match the answer plots closely. Award one point for each correct plot. If one of the methods is producing curves with correct distortion, but the other is incorrect, award one point.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_111.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_111.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_290.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_290.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_896.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_896.png}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Solution for Question 11 (1 pt)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Item a (1 pt) \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 For each data set (
\f2\fs34 \up0 111
\f1\fs28 \up0 , 
\f2\fs34 \up0 290
\f1\fs28 \up0 , and 
\f2\fs34 \up0 896
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 counties), does one clustering method consistently produce lower distortion clusterings when the number of output clusters is in the range 
\f2\fs34 \up0 6
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 to 
\f2\fs34 \up0 20
\f1\fs28 \up0 ? If so, indicate on which data set(s) one method is superior to the other.\cb1 \
\cb3 For the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 111
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 county data set, hierarchical clustering consistently produces clusterings with less distortion. For the other two data sets, neither clustering method consistently dominates. Interestingly, k-means clustering produces lower distortion clusterings for the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 3108
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 county data set. Here is a plot of distortion for the clusterings produced by both methods.\cb1 \
\cb3 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_3018.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/matplotlib_distortion_3018.png}}\cb1 \
\cb3 For this item, award full credit if the submitted answer states that hierarchical clustering produces lower distortion clusterings for the  
\f2\fs34 \up0 111
\f1\fs28 \up0 county data set. Award no credit if the submitted answer states k-means produces lower distortion (or that the results are mixed) for the 
\f2\fs34 \up0 111
\f1 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 county data set. Since the results are mixed for the other two data sets, do not consider the answers for these two data sets in scoring this problem.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Conclusion for Questions 10-11\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Beyond the smallest data set, neither method consistently produces lower distortion clusterings.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Overall Evaluation (optional, no credit)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Which clustering method would you prefer when analyzing these data sets? Provide a summary of each method's strengths and weaknesses on these data sets in the three areas considered in this application.\cb1 \
\cb3 On these data sets, neither method dominates in all three areas: efficiency, automation, and quality. In terms of efficiency, k-means clustering is preferable to hierarchical clustering as long as the desired number of output clusters is known beforehand. However, in terms of automation, k-means clustering suffers from the drawback that a reliable method for determining the initial cluster centers needs to be available. Finally, in terms of quality, neither method produces clusterings with consistently lower distortion on larger data sets.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 As you may suspect, this answer is basically impossible to reliable peer assess for content since the answer to this question is subject to much interpretation. Feel free to add comments critiquing your peer's answer if you so desire.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf7 \cb8 \strokec7 Mark as completed\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf9 \cb1 \strokec9 \
\
Question 4\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs34 \cf0 \cb10 \outl0\strokewidth0 The runtime for Hierarchical clustering is O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0\fs24 **2
\fs34 log
\i n
\i0 )
\f1\fs28  and for k-means, the running time is either 
\f2\i\fs34 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 )
\f1\fs28  or 
\f2\i\fs34 O
\i0 (
\i n**
\i0\fs24 2
\fs34 ). Whenever the output cluster is a fraction of n, K-Means will have a better performance.
\f1\fs28 \cf9 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf9 \
Question 7\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs22 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Hierarchical Distortion =  175163886915.8305\
KMeans Distortion =  271254226924.20047\
\
Question 8\
There seem to be more clusters generated by k-means particularly in California, the clusters in Northern California includes Southern Oregon. Are these distortions? These differences in the k-means generated clusters may be the consequence of the selection of beginning clusters based on population. \
\
Question 9\
Since the k-means algorithm requires some form of random selection of clusters in the initial phase, I will assume that picking the right ones would require some strategic reasoning. Thus the k-means algorithm requires more human intervention.\
\
Question 10\
\
Question 11\
The distortion is lower in the hierarchical in the 111 county dataset, they seem to be the same with the other datasets.
\f1\fs28 \cf9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf9 \
}