{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red251\green0\blue7;\red53\green118\blue190;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21380\viewh15740\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Application #2 Solution\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 Honor Code\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 To aid you in assessing your peers' submissions for the Application, we have developed an extensive solution/grading guide provided below that you should review 
\b after 
\b0 completing your first submission to the Application and before you assess your peers' submissions. 
\b Please do not consult this reading before making your first attempt at the Application.
\b0  Using this reading to prepare your first submission violates the class Honor Code and robs you of the learning experience provided by this assignment. If you need to make a second submission for the Application, we ask that you limit your consultation of this solution guide and under no circumstances should you submit copies of the plots provided below. 
\b Create your own original plots.
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 Solution for Question 1 (5 pts)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  Does the plot follow the formatting guidelines for plots?\
The formatting guidelines include the following items:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot is an image and not a text file.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot is appropriately trimmed. Showing the boundary of the plot's window is fine. However, the plot should not include part of the desktop.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The elements of the plot are of the correct type. Line plots are not the same as point plots.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Both axes should have tick marks labeled by regularly-spaced coordinate values.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Both axes have appropriate text labels that describe the quantities being plotted.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The plot has an appropriate title that describes the content of the plot.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \cb3 Assess the submitted plot based on these guidelines.As a specific note, if the horizontal axis is labeled "Number of nodes remaining" (as opposed to "Number of nodes removed" as specified in the Question), please score this item as a zero. This situation will be apparent if the three curves are increasing as opposed to decreasing. You will then grade these curves for correctness using the "flipped" solution given in item c.\

\b Item b (1 pt) 
\b0 Does the plot include a legend? Does this legend include correct values for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 p
\f0\i0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  used in ER and UPA, respectively?\
The correct value of 
\f2\i\fs34 \cf4 \up0 p
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  is approximately 
\f2\fs34 \up0 0.004
\f0\fs28 \up0 .\cf2  Score values for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 p
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  between 
\f2\fs34 \up0 0.0039
\f0\fs28 \up0  and 
\f2\fs34 \up0 0.0040
\f0\fs28 \up0  (inclusive) as being correct. The correct value for 
\f2\i\fs34 \cf4 \up0 m
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  is either 
\f2\fs34 \up0 2
\f0\fs28 \up0  or 
\f2\fs34 \up0 3
\f0\fs28 \up0 .\cf2 \
Some students' ER methods may consider each possible edge twice. As a consequence, they may have submitted a value 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 p
\i0 \uc0\u8776 0.002
\f0\fs28 \up0 . Considering each edge twice is inconsistent with the supplied pseudo-code for creating an undirected ER graph. (Note that there is a hint in the problem warning against this choice.) Therefore, count this choice for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 p
\f0\i0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 as being incorrect.\

\b Item c (3 pts)
\b0  Do the three curves in the plot have the correct shapes?\
Below are correct plots for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =2
\f0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 in 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 and 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =3
\f0\fs28 \up0  in 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 . All three curves should descend in a roughly linear manner towards zero as the number of nodes removed increases. Note that due to the use of random attack orders, the three curves may differ somewhat from the plots below. However, you should see a downward linear trend with possible occasional sudden dips in all three curves.\
\pard\tx18621\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_random_matplotlib_m2.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_random_matplotlib_m2.png}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_random_simpleplot_m3.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_random_simpleplot_m3.png}}\
This plot shows a matplotlib plot for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =3
\f0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 with the horizontal axis incorrectly varying by the number of nodes remaining. In this case, three curves increasing in a roughly linear manner. Since you should have deducted for this error in item a, please score plots that match this answer with full credit on this item.\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_random_matplotlib_backwards_m3.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_random_matplotlib_backwards_m3.png}}\
Note that, if the plots used incorrect values for either 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 p
\f0\i0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 or 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0 , judge the correctness of the submitted plots based on their similarity to the shape of the correct plots. Finally, deduct one point from the score below if three separate (correct) plots were submitted.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 Solution for Question 2 (1 pt)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  Which of the three graphs are resilient under random attack as the first 20% of their nodes are removed?\
All three graphs are resilient under random attack as the first 20% of their nodes are removed (unless the random order happens to remove a large number of high degree nodes, which is unlikely). In particular, all three curves have an approximate slope of 
\f2\fs34 \up0 \uc0\u8722 1
\f0\fs28 \up0  as the number of nodes removed varies from 
\f2\fs34 \up0 0
\f0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 to 
\f2\fs34 \up0 240
\f0\fs28 \up0 .\
If the submitted answer states that one of the graphs is not resilient to a random attack, check the corresponding resilience curve in Question 1. If there is a large drop (> 25%) in the resilience for this curve when the first 20% of the nodes are removed, assume that the submitter was unlucky and count the submitted answer for this graph as being correct. (If you have doubt about whether the drop is 25%, give your peer the benefit of the doubt.) Otherwise, count the answer as being incorrect.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 Solution for Question 3 (3 pts)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 What are tight upper bounds on the worst-case running times of 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  and 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 ? Use big-
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  notation to express your answers (which should be very simple).\
The running time for 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0\fs24 2
\fs34 )
\f0\fs28 \up0 . Since the code is simple, we will leave the analysis to you. Lines 1-5 in 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  take 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 +
\i m
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0  time. The running time for remaining portion of 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is also 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 +
\i m
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0 . To arrive at this bound, we note that 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 performs a constant number of single item set operations for each node and edge in the graph. Since each of these set operations are assumed to 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (1)
\f0\fs28 \up0 , the running time for this algorithm is 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 +
\i m
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0  where 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  is the number of edges. Since number of edges in the UPA graph is bounded by 
\f2\fs34 \up0 5
\i n
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0 , the running time for all of 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  is 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0 .\

\b Note that the submitted answer does not need to provide this analysis.
\b0  It only needs to provide the correct estimates using big-
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  notation. In the case where the submitted answer includes the number of edges 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0 , you should score the running times of 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0\fs24 2
\fs34 +
\i m
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0  for 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  as being correct and answer of the form 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 +
\i m
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0  for 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  as being correct.\
If the submitted answers are different, feel free to use your math skills to determine if they are equivalent to the answers above. However, there is no need to be exhaustive here.\

\b item b (1 pt) 
\b0 Does the plot follow the formatting guidelines for plots? Does the plot include a legend? Does the title include the implementation of Python used to compute the timings?\
Reference the formatting guidelines from Question 1 item a for this item. The title of the plot should give some indication of what implementation of Python was used when running the program to help understand the vertical scale. The main point of this item is to distinguish desktop Python from CodeSkulptor due to the significant gap in their performance. Be generous here when grading and accept anything that sounds plausible. Answers like "desktop Python", "command line Python", "CPython", "IPython", and "CodeSkulptor" are fine. IDE names like "IDLE", "Anaconda" and "Canopy" are also fine. The user does not need to include version information.\

\b Item c (1 pt)
\b0  Are the shapes of the timing curves in the plot correct?\
Here are two examples of correct plots using an 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 O
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 )
\f0\fs28 \up0  implementation of lines 1-2: one using IDLE and 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  and another using CodeSkulptor and 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2 .\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_comparison_targeted_matplotlib.PNG"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_comparison_targeted_matplotlib.PNG}}\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_comparison_targeted_simpleplot.PNG"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_comparison_targeted_simpleplot.PNG}}\
Note that the timing curve for 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56975 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56989 _\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  should be approximately linear while the timing curve for 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56976 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56973 _\u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56987 \u55349 \u56973 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56987 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  should be quadratic. The scale on vertical axis may vary significantly since different machines have different processing power. For example, plots generated in CodeSkulptor may require 20-50 times more time than plots generated in IDLE.\
Also, note that the curves in the plot may be somewhat noisy (bumpy). This shape is the result of Python's garbage collector (and other activities on the computer) slowing Python's performance and should not affect your scoring.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 Solution for Question 4 (5 pts)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Item a (1 pt)
\b0  Does the plot follow the formatting guidelines for plots?\
Assess the submitted plot based using the same guidelines as provided in Question 1 item a.\

\b Item b (1 pt) 
\b0 Does the plot include a legend? Does this legend indicate the values for p and m used in ER and UPA, respectively?\
For this problem, you should 
\b not
\b0  deduct a point if the provided legend does not contain values for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 p
\f0\i0\fs28 \up0  and 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\f0\i0 \cb1  
\fs28 \cb3 \up0 (or displays incorrect values). However, do score as a zero if no legend was provided.\

\b Item c (3 pts)
\b0  Do the three curves in the plot have the correct shape?\
Below are 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  and 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  plots for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =2
\f0\fs28 \up0 .\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_matplotlib_m2.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_matplotlib_m2.png}}\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_simpleplot_m2.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_simpleplot_m2.png}}\
Here are 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56970 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56971 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  and 
\f2\fs34 \cf5 \up0 \strokec5 \uc0\u55349 \u56988 \u55349 \u56978 \u55349 \u56982 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56974 \u55349 \u56985 \u55349 \u56981 \u55349 \u56984 \u55349 \u56989 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \up0 \strokec2  plots for 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =3
\f0\fs28 \up0 .\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_matplotlib_m3.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_matplotlib_m3.png}}\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_simpleplot_m3.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 http://storage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-alg/alg_resilience_targeted_simpleplot_m3.png}}\
In general, the resilience for all three graphs should drop towards zero very quickly with the ER graph being most resilient and the computer network being least resilient. If the submitted plot for the 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =3
\f0\fs28 \up0  UPA curve is shifted significantly to the left and instead looks like the solution plot for the 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =2
\f0\fs28 \up0  UPA curve, score that curve as being incorrect since this shift indicates that incorrect probabilities were used in computing the UPA graph.\
For this question, you should not deduct points for flipping the horizontal axis (i.e., using the label "Number of nodes remaining") or using three separate plots.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 Solution for Question 5 (1 pt)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Item a (1 pt) 
\b0 Which of the three graphs are resilient under targeted attacks as the first 20% of their nodes are removed?\
The slope of the ER curve is close to 
\f2\fs34 \up0 \uc0\u8722 1
\f0\fs28 \up0  as the first 20% of the nodes in the graph are removed. Therefore, the ER graph is resilient to targeted attacks of this type. On the other hand, the size of the largest connected component in the computer network drops to almost zero when the first 20% of the nodes are removed. Therefore, the computer network should not be listed as being resilient.\
The UPA graph is a close call. For 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =2
\f0\fs28 \up0 , the size of the largest connected component drops to zero fairly quickly as 20% of the nodes are removed. For 
\f2\i\fs34 \up0 m
\i0 =3
\f0\fs28 \up0 , this size is fairly close to the number of nodes remaining as 20% of the nodes are removed and is just starting to drop significantly. So, either choice (listing the UPA graph as being resilient or not listing the UPA graph as being resilient) should be counted as correct.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 Solution for Question 6 (optional, no credit)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Item a (0 pts) 
\b0 If you found one of the two random graphs to be more resilient under targeted attacks than the computer network, do you think network designers should always ensure that networks' topologies follow that random model?No. Many factors, such as geography, distance, and cost, influence real-world network designs. For example, while an ER graph might be resilient to targeted attacks, it might be very costly to build, or might not be doable given the geographic locations of the routers in the network.\
\
\
}